We are gonna do all of the marking
as correct, close, or wrong.
Now, I'm just gonna forewarn you here that
I've already thought about this a lot.
And so we're just gonna go
straight to my best solution, but
it took me a couple of iterations
of trying it once, trying it twice,
trying it a different way,
trying it again.
And I have found that eventually,
the easiest way to do this was to go over
the list or the word once mark,
everything is correct, that's correct.
Then go back over it again and mark
everything that else as close or wrong.
And I'll explain to you why.
So again, remember the correct
word here is ivory, right?
If I put pools here, notice that this
first o is marked as incorrect, right?
Now if I was just doing like
a really naïve implementation,
there is an o in this, right?
There's this o, so
if I was just being naïve about it,
this would be marked as close, right?
It'd be marked as yellow.
But we don't want that,
that's actually not correct.
So we actually have to keep track of
how many of each letter is in the word.
Does that make sense?
Okay, so let me show you how I did that.
There's definitely other
ways of doing that.
So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna split our guess into pieces.
Easy way to do that, Is we're gonna say,
const guessParts or
whatever you wanna call it,
equals currentGuess.split.
And if you split on an empty string,
it'll rip it apart and
make each character one entry in an array.
Let me show you what I mean here.
So if I go over here to the console,
and I say POOLS.
Sorry, I have to make it a string.
POOLS.split and I give it an empty string.
Notice I get back an array of P-O-O-L-S,
right?
That's what split does.
Okay, so now I have this array of letters.
The next thing I'm gonna do is,
I wanna go count how many of each letter.
Well, before I even do that,
I have this word here.
So I'm actually going to go up here,
again, this word doesn't change,
so I can actually just do it up here.
I'm gonna say const wordParts,
= word.split, again, same way.
So now I have two different part arrays,
right?
This one is gonna be the correct answer,
and
this is going to be what the user
is guessing at the moment.
So even before we go and do all
the counting, let's just go ahead and,
We're gonna say for,
Let i = 0.
i is less than,
you could say parts or .length or
you can even just say ANSWER LENGTH,
they should all be the same thing.
I ++, and we're gonna go through,
all we're gonna do right now is
just mark things that are correct.
So we're gonna say here this
is the mark as correct.
And we're just gonna say, if,
guessParts at I triple
equals wordParts at i,
Then it's right, right,
they got the right thing
in the right spot, right?
So again, if we're over here at POOLS,
and we're on the this one here,
the word is IVORY.
On this one,
the O is going to triple equal to the O,
they got something correct.
So what we're gonna do there
is we're gonna say, letters,
currentRow times ANSWER_LENGTH plus what?
Plus i, right?
So if we're on, the second one has to
be plus two, if we're on the zero with
one that it's plus zero, so plus i there,
wherever this i is correct.
We're just gonna say .classList
cuz they're all dom nodes,
.add and they are correct, right?
So we'll mark it is green.
Cool, good so far?
So let's actually try
that see if it works.
We know what are word is it's IVORY.
If I type in here POOLS,
I would expect this O to be green.
Very cool.
If I type in here IVORY, we haven't done
this yet but now all of them are correct.
So far pretty good.
PEARS, that one's right.
Awesome.
Okay, let's go do a second loop through.
And we're gonna do on the second
loop everything's gonna be
marked as incorrect or correct.
Now, again,
you might be looking me like Brian,
why can I just mark it as incorrect or
close in here?
You could, but I promise you,
you're gonna run into an issue that
you're gonna have to refactor later.
We're gonna go for a second loop.
Let i = 0.
i is less than ANSWER_LENGTH i++.
So we're gonna basically
take this first one.
Since we already took care of this one,
we're just gonna do nothing here,
we don't need to do anything again.
Do nothing we already did it.
Else if,
We have to do something here,
so I'm just gonna put like
a little comment here to say that we're
gonna come back and get this right.
TODO make this more accurate.
For now,
what we're gonna say if a guest parts,
sorry, wordParts.includes,
so wordParts is an array, right?
And, Includes is a function
that you can call to say,
hey, does this array contain
this other thing anywhere?
So let me give you an example of that.
If I have, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and
I say .includes(3), that's true, right?
Because three is somewhere in this array.
If I do 10, that's false because
there's no 10 in that array.
So I'm gonna say does workParts.include
anywhere guessParts(i),
if it does, Then mark it is close, right?
So we're gonna say, we're gonna just
take this exact same thing here.
But instead of adding correct
we're gonna add close.
And if it's not close or
correct, what is it?
It's wrong.
Okay, refresh the page.
So how about POOLS?
PEARS, or something like that, right?
So, this is doing exactly what we
told it to do, or how about TOILS?
So this one's actually right,
this would be correct.
There is an O but it's in the wrong place,
there is an I but it's in the wrong place,
this is exactly what it should be showing,
right?
T is incorrect, it's not an IVORY at all.
L is incorrect it's not an IVORY and
S is not in IVORY at all.
Where we have a problem
now is we have this one.
This O is being marked as close and
it's not, right?
Because there is an O it's
in the correct place,
this is informing the user there's
an O in here somewhere and we lied.
It's a lie, everything's a lie.
So that means we kind of have to keep
track of how many letters are in there?
And I'll show you how I did it.
First of all, any questions here before
we dive into making it even more correct?
So we have to count for every letter
how many of them are in here, right?
So we have to know that there's exactly
one O, and there's not two O's.
So the way that I chose to
do this is before I even get
started, I have a function here,
just down at
the bottom it's kind of just like a little
utility function and I call it makeMap.
And it takes in an array.
It makes an object.
And all it's gonna do is it's just
going to say, there's one P in here,
there's one O, there's one I, there's two.
And it's just gonna make
an object of that, right?
So it's gonna say 4, let i = 0,
i is less than array.length, i + +.
And it's gonna say,
if you already have that object,
so object, Of array i.
So this might be a little bit more clear,
let's do it this way.
const, letter, Equals array of i.
So we talked a little about
this when we're doing objects.
So this will be like P or O or L and
this will be setting either P or
O or I or something like that,
on the object.
So if I just say, if object of letter,
if I just say like that, if it exists,
it'll return true, if it doesn't exist,
it will not return true.
And if it does exist,
then we're just gonna say ++ or
otherwise we're gonna say object of letter
equals 1 and we will return the object.
So let me show you an example of
using this and then we'll go back and
dissect it again.
So const map equals make map,
that function that we just wrote together,
of guess, not just guessParts but
wordParts.
And then just to show you what it is
we'll say console.log map, map now.
Refresh the page and
I say POOLS here and I hit Enter.
It's giving me IVORY which has
one of each letter, right?
Which in this general case is
probably gonna be okay, but
let's take a look at,
makeMap of something like POOLS,
and we'll split that on empty string.
Right, POOLS has two O's, right,
so it comes out back with two.
And that's what we're looking for,
cuz then I can keep track of how many,
of each letter I've marked as close or
correct.
And then therefore at the end
of this I can make sure that
I have exactly the correct amount of
things marked as correct and close.
There are other ways you could
have done this for sure.
You could have checked
the string every time of like,
okay how many O's are in here?
This is the way that made sense to me.
Because now at the end of this,
if I go down to my commit, this part,
if they get a correct
thing I can just say, map,
Of the letter, right, the letter is gonna
be whatever the guess part was, right?
So I can put that here and
I can just say --, right?
So that means after I guess the O
correctly here it'll minus minus this,
so that later I can check to say like,
hey,
is there an O left for
me to mark as close, right?
You can use this technique
to kind of do that.
So again, guess parts here,
this will be like O, right?
And inside of that map, if you
remember here, it'll just make this,
O go minus minus, right?
So if I do that again,
I will just say x equals,
right, and when I say x.o, right, and
I say --, Then x.o here now is 1.
If I do it again, x.o --, then x.o oops.
X.o is 0, right?
And then now once it's 0,
then I can say, cool,
there are no more O's left in this string.
Does that follow make sense?
Cool.
All right.
Why map?
That's probably a good question you could
ask me.
That kind of data structure that I showed
you where you were just making like
a mapping basically, it's just called
a map, that's what you would call it.
A map is, loosely an object.
Now every time we mark something as
correct we're doing minus minus and
this is why I split it apart, is I can
go mark all the correct things first
cuz that's more important than
being close as being correct.
Then on here,
now we can make this more correct, right,
we can say, If this is true,
if it includes it, and then we can do
what's called the compound condition.
So if I put a double ampersand here,
now both of these things have to be true.
So if I say and,
Map, guessParts of i,
right, that thing that we've
been decrementing up here.
If that's greater than 0,
Okay, then we can mark it as close.
Right, so with this one now it's gonna
go find this first O on the first pass.
It'll decrement that so
that there's no O's left for
it to mark on the second pass through.
And so this mapGuess parts of
O here is going to be what?
0, right, because there's no O's left
here, so it's not gonna mark it as close,
it's gonna mark it as wrong.
Okay, and then important here you have
to also do decrement here as well.
All right,
because now we've marked that many right.
You can imagine a case where
there's three of one letter, right?
In which case it would
become important here, or
two if you just got them both close,
or one, doesn't matter.
Anyway, important for
you to say that I've,
you're basically counting how many
of these you're keeping track of.
And now if we save this and come back
over here and refresh, if we say POOLS,
Now this is not being counted
which is exactly what we wanted.
Right, and now it'll only mark
the first one, not the other three.